Masscan
Masscan can scan the entire Internet
in about 6 minutes,
transmitting an astounding
10 million packets per second.
While it was originally designed
to scan the entire Internet,
it can easily handle
a class A or B subnet,
which is a more suitable target
range during a penetration test.
Masscan is not installed
on Kali by default;
it must be installed using apt install.
Since masscan implements
a custom TCP/IP stack
and requires access to raw sockets,
we must run it as sudo.
To try masscan on a class C subnet
in the PWK internal lab network,
we can use the following example.
However, this is presented
as an example only.
Do not run this within the lab.
We use the rate option to specify the
desired rate of packet transmission…
…-e to specify the raw
network interface to use,
which is our VPN interface
in this example…
…and router-ip to specify the
IP address for the appropriate gateway.
Within a few seconds, we have the results of our scan.